The Joe Rogan experience. Well.
Okay, so we're fast forwarding to noon.
Okay. Give me a radio.
On a non radio day. Non radio day. I get up at seven.
I get up at seven. I go upstairs soldier. I make coffee.
I get one cup of coffee. Do you.
Play classical music softly once.
In a while? Yeah.
Usually I picture you OCD butter and your toast.
No, I don't. I don't eat straight away.
It's just straight black coffee into the office.
I have an office and I try and write. I sit at the desk,
I call it going into the shop and I sit there and I write and I make sure that
there's no appointments until noon.
Anything that I'm going to do. I don't do until noon.
Except if I'm going to go for a run or work out,
I'll put in a couple hours. And then when I start to fade I'll, uh,
I'll uh, go for a run and then come back and continue. Oh, I skipped something.
No, sorry. Uh, before the coffee,
if I'm up early enough and the house isn't up,
I'll meditate first for 20 minutes before you even right before
coffee before I right. Really? Yeah. Wake up water in the face.
Maybe brush teeth up into the office and then take 20 right away,
because it's more restful than sleep.
So even if you had like a bad night's sleep or you're tossing or whatever was
going on, you're now ready to, to go through the day.
What.
Kind of meditation are you doing? TM.
Transcendental meditation.
Transcendental meditation. There.
There's a weird thing about that. Right? Some people think it's kind of culty.
It's not culty. It's.
Not called it. There's no, there's no leaders. Right.
But it wasn't there. Um,
wasn't there some controversy with TM awhile back? I think so. No,
my misconstruing. It was something else. Yeah.
Yeah. No, th that's why I like I'm, I'm very into it.
I'm doing it for a long time. It's great. I, but I don't, I like yoga.
I was like all that kind of stuff.
And unless you get a little hippy dippy with it and a little too preachy,
and then I'm out. Yeah, me too.
And this is totally basic simple.
When I was taught it, there was nothing like hippy-dippy flaky about.
No one spent that hippie DB flaky. It's only,
it only feels if the person's not really living that life and you can kind of
feel it kind of bullshitting. There was this guy used to take classes from St.
Louis. Peter is from South Africa. And I only took his classes a few times,
but he was like one of those genuinely spiritual people.
And we would say these things,
and you could tell he wasn't trying to manipulate you or
[inaudible]
, or he wasn't trying to you that's. Yeah. And then there was another guy that I used to take classes with. It, it felt like he was always bullshitting. Right? Always. It was so annoying. And he
went up banging this other dude's wife and he came a giant disaster. The guy.
With the acoustic guitar making eye contact with. So funny.
You say that he would sing singing clashes.
Of course, of course. No. There's you can, you can smell it.
And that's why I had a hard time with yoga until I found this one teacher and
she was just great. And it's the same thing with.
Here. It is cult controversy or something a while ago. Yeah.
Okay. Yeah. With TM, can we make that a little larger? I can barely read that.
Yeah. That's.
Really small.
What, but say the organization organization had been,
the subject of controversy is labeled a cult by several parliamentary inquiries
or anti-cop movements of the world.
Some also should adjust the TM it's movement or not a cult.
The TM movement has been characterized in a variety of ways,
has been called the spiritual movement, a new religious movement, a millennia,
Erin [inaudible] article,
world affirming world affirming movement, social movement,
a GRU centered movement.
How a new book exposes the dark side of trans gentlemen.
The education. I don't even understand where you would have,
like where it would happen. Like there's no place to.
Go, honestly, ignorant of it. So explain it to us. Yeah.
There's nothing. It's very, you know,
I tried meditating in all these different ways and this was,
this kind of made it very simple.
It's doesn't just Seinfeld do this too. Yes.
Yeah. He's actually the one that, that got me into it. And for a long time,
I was thinking, well, I meditate. I count breaths. I'd kind of do it.
Then I wasn't really feeling, maybe I was, I was,
I always had my head that maybe TM is different. Maybe,
maybe going and learning that would kind of dial it in a little bit classes on
it. So I took four classes, went and saw this guy, um,
hearing California and just go for an hour for four
days in a row. And he teaches you what to do it. And the analogy is that,
uh, there's this,
the reality is just in this tumultuous ocean
waves. We're on the top. We're on the surface. That's where we live.
And this is just a way through a mantra to get you down below the waves to
sit for 20 minutes.
And it's very freeing because there's no, there's no controlling your mind.
There's no forcing it to come back and count breaths. There's no, you're never,
you're not, you're not, uh, thinking about what you have to do.
You just do the mantra, do the mantra and then let it go.
And if your brain starts thinking about work and thinks about work,
if it starts thinking about your wife, it's we just let it be, let it be,
let it be.
And 20 minutes you pop out of it and you feel
not right away. I don't feel changed immediately. Like I'll feel I,
you know, I have an apple watch and my heart rate is low.
Like it's 40 to 50.
All the time. Or when you're doing, when I'm doing that, how much is it?
Normally? Probably like 80. What's it right now.
[Inaudible].
How long does it take to find that out? It's going to take awhile. Hey Siri.
It's at 80 80. Yeah. And you get down to 40 when you get TM. Yeah.
Oh yeah. It's very calming. And it just kind of like gives your nervous system,
uh, a respite. That's pretty heavy. It's pretty great.
It gives me a lot of energy. Activate.
Siri. Hey Siri.
Siri.
It didn't catch this.
Area's a pain now people right now screaming at me because their car is gone.
What would you like me to do?
Yeah, but I don't feel it like right away, but, but like,
I'll notice it hours later that I have more energy, like.
I'm still going, what is the process? How do you do it? I just sit.
And what's the mantra. Uh.
Everyone has an individual mantra. Tell us.
Your mantra. I can't come on, bro. What if someone's a gigantic Tom Papa fan.
They want you to want to do everything that you do.
Oh, that's true. It's jelly beans.
That's what you say now.
Yeah. It's just a noise.
It might be weird if you just kept saying Jerry Seinfeld.
Sour dough.
This is how it would be cool. It's Howard's delicious food,
but it wouldn't be nearly as weird. Something about Brad, Garrett.
Yeah. Brad, Garrett.
Yeah. It's really weird. Right?
So I'm tout. So I do it first thing in the morning, 20 minutes.
And then sometime in the late afternoon.
All you do is you sit and you just change your mantra in my mind and you don't
say it out loud. Okay.
So as you're just repeating the mantra in your mind,
you just try to stay on path of just keeping it.
And when I don't try and stay on a path, I don't force anything.
I just keep saying it.
But if your brain tells you to trick you and say, Hey Tom,
I got a really great idea for a new bit. Do let it happen. Let it go.
It's okay.
To write the bit down. Or do you go back to no, whoa. You're risking it all.
I'm not that great of a comedian. So those things don't happen.
Yeah. I been laying in bed and I was too tired to get up.
And I would w I'd say, I'm going to remember you remember that? Yeah,
I definitely didn't.
No. And, uh, and yeah,
20 minutes and I'm telling you, it, it,
my one friend described it as it's adds another four hours to your day. Wow.
And it's really true when I, when you call me today,
last minute to come in, I took 20 before I came, because I was dragging,
I went for a run this morning. I meditated this morning,
but then I went for a run. I came back,
I was writing and you call and you're like, can you come on over?
I was like, yeah, that's cool.
But let me drop for 15 minutes before I get in the car.
Once we did he meditated for 15 minutes. Yep. Wow. Do you do that before sets.
If I'm tired. Yeah. Like it's towards the end of the day.
And I've got something that, you know, at night that's a little later.
Does it help you make decisions? Yes.
How did you still make the decision to do a radio show at seven in the morning?
Because I'm not afraid of it because I know that I can meditate and I'll
have energy. How many days a week?
I don't have to worry about getting a good night's sleep ever. No, that's crazy.
I can meditate and then I'll be okay for the show. That's.
Crazy. I can't do that. Yes, you can.
You should go.
Okay.
Really? Yeah. I'd love to, I'll hook you up with the guy.
Can I just watch a YouTube video and that good enough.
Now I've learned so much from YouTube though. Have you? Yes.
It's true.
Why can't you learn transcendental meditation for you to.
You know, what, there's this mystery about it.
And I would research it and I was like, maybe what? Like,
why can't I just learn it mystery. The only difference is having this man,
explain it to you. It kind of dials it in.
And I went back once since I learned it initially, just to kind of tune up,
tune up. There's not that much, but it's just, you know,
they give you a little bit, you know,
it's like playing tennis or something and they're like, no,
just hold it like this. Oh, right. Okay. Or like in yoga. And they're like,
you think you're doing this, but your elbows are out.
That's big in yoga. Like sometimes the instructor will give you one thing.
She'll say one thing about your,
the way you're standing or the way you keep your weight. And you're like,
oh man. And you just change it just slightly. Oh my gosh. So much.
I know which you never would have learned at home.
So it's kind of a similar thing. And, uh, it just, uh,
an over time. So that's what it is on a daily basis. But over time, it's,
uh, it makes you more chill. Things.
Don't bother me the way they used to bother me.
Just day to day aggravations, normal.
There's it's it's um, you,
you slowly transform without realizing it. Do.
You know, um, who Dan Harris is Sam.
Harris, Dan.
Harris. Dan Harris.
From.
No ABC from what is the show? Nightline.
That sounds right.
Is that what he's on? Anyway, he'd been on the podcast for a really nice guy.
He's got a Nightline,
he's got an app called 10% happier and it's just a meditation app.
And he wants people to know that it's been super beneficial to him.
So he talks about it often.
He talked about it on my podcast and he actually used the tank.
He's the only guy. Yeah. He's the only guy other than me. That's overused.
That tank. I want to use the tank. Okay. This.
Was a weird thing for it to everybody. But Dan Harris is the only one that said.